README.md, before:

# Testing Go Applications
This repository is for learning how to test Go applications.

Several test commands which can be used,

- `go test` to run the test in the current directory.
- `go test <package>` e.g. `git test github.com/aravinthkumar/testing-go-apps/code/message` to run a specific package.
- `go test -v` for providing more verbose (for example information of passed tests).
- `go test -run Greet` for running a specific test
- `go test -cover` to see the test coverage.
- `go test -coverprofile cover.out` prints out the coverage details into a `cover.out` file.
- `go tool cover -func cover.out` to open the coverage details in the terminal using go tool
- `go tool cover -html cover.out` to open the coverage details in the browser using go tool

## Special Type of Test : Table Driven Tests

- Here a single function is tested against all possible scenarios.

> following example shows where multiple scenarios are run against the function.

```go 
	scenarios := []struct {
		input  string
		output string
	}{
		{input: "Gophers", output: "Hello, Gophers"},
		{input: "", output: "Hello,   "},
	}
	for _, s := range scenarios {
		result := Greet(s.input)
		if result != s.output {
			T.Errorf(" Greet didn't match, actual: '%v' but expected: '%v'", result, s.output)
		}
	}
```


##  To Do 

- Learning Notes
- Benchmarking Test
- Profiling Test

Commit message:

bench mark testing and profiling details included

README.md, after:

# Testing Go Applications
This repository is for learning how to test Go applications.

Several test commands which can be used,

- `go test` to run the test in the current directory.
- `go test <package>` e.g. `git test github.com/aravinthkumar/testing-go-apps/code/message` to run a specific package.
- `go test -v` for providing more verbose (for example information of passed tests).
- `go test -run Greet` for running a specific test
- `go test -cover` to see the test coverage.
- `go test -coverprofile cover.out` prints out the coverage details into a `cover.out` file.
- `go tool cover -func cover.out` to open the coverage details in the terminal using go tool
- `go tool cover -html cover.out` to open the coverage details in the browser using go tool

## Special Type of Test : Table Driven Tests

- Here a single function is tested against all possible scenarios.

> following example shows where multiple scenarios are run against the function.

```go 
	scenarios := []struct {
		input  string
		output string
	}{
		{input: "Gophers", output: "Hello, Gophers"},
		{input: "", output: "Hello,   "},
	}
	for _, s := range scenarios {
		result := Greet(s.input)
		if result != s.output {
			T.Errorf(" Greet didn't match, actual: '%v' but expected: '%v'", result, s.output)
		}
	}
```

### Benchmarking & Profiling Tests

**Benchmarking**

`go test -bench .` to run the benchmark tests and other tests.
`go test -bench <testnmae>` to run a particular benchmark test
`go test -bench . -benchtime 10s` by default it stickts to one second of benchmark, with `benchtime` flag it can run for specified number of time.


**Profiling**

`go test -bench . -benchmem` to report memory allocation statistics for benchmark.
`go test -trace {trace.out}` Record execution trace to {trace.out} for analysis
`go test -{type}profile {file}` (block,cover,cpu,mem,mutex)
- for e.g `go test -bench <test> -memprofile profile.out` to generate a report for memory allocation profile.
- for e.g. `go tool pprof profile.out` to generate report in other formats such as `svg` , `png` ....
